
*******Terraform Interview Questions*******

1. terraform plan lock state
2. explain terraform layout and many scenarios on layout structure 
3. different workspace and same requirement of modules, how to structure the layout? Remote s3 uses  
4. Terraform statefile 
5. What are the required fields for EC2 instance in tf?
6. Lets say i have 10 resource blocks in terraform and i have made some mistake in 6th block(i have entered invalid ami ID). When i run tf plan what will it show?
7. Follow up of the above. When i run tf apply how many resources will be created in aws and how? Why it will create those many resouces and what is the difference between declarative and imperative?
8. Follow up. How to make sure that tf will identify that correct resource id is present in the resource block?
9. Someone has changed resources in aws. Lets say they have changed the instance type there. What wil happen when i run tf apply? And i dont want tf to create the resources if there is any problem with the resource block. How to achieve it?
10. I want a resource to be recreated with a fresh copy when i run tf apply. How to achieve it?
11. I dont want to hardcode security credentials in the tf block or even in envt variables. Whats the other way to achieve it?
12. What is the version of tf u are using? Why only that particular version? what problems will i face when i upgrade from one version to another?
13. Have u worked on AWS cloudformation? why not? why terraform only?
14. Imagine i want to create some resouces in one region and some in other regions. How will u achieve it?
15. Follow up. I want to create resources in another aws account and another region. How to do it? where will u make changes?
16. Write Terraform code for private subnet
17. Why did you use terraform in your project?
18. What is state file?
19. What happens if state file is deleted?
20. What are the different components of tf architecture?
21. What is tf import?
22. U want to create Ec2 using tf. Where will u keep the tf statefile?
23. U have kept versioning in S3 bucket. Even if the object is deleted u can always get back back the file. But if the bucket itself is deleted. How will u recover it.
24. Two AWS account A and B. if u want to create VPC in two accounts with two different providers and want to apply the configuration in single command . how will u do?
25. how do you maintain terraform statefile 
26. is the same statefile shared across different environments 
27. what are workspaces 
28. have you used modules in terraform 
29. what are the difference between ansible and terraform 
30. during terraform plan there are 5 changes to be made, but i want to apply oly one change , is it possible? 
31. have you worked on modules n Terraform explain 
32. what are the workspace that you have 
33. where do you store the terraform statefile 
34. write the tf scripts for s3
35. explain the application that you are working on 
36. terraform backend 
37. terraform data source 
38. explain vpc structure in terraform 
39. expalin data block with vpc 
40. why and how do we define life cycle in terraform 
41. what are terraform public modules and how to use them 
42. terraform  provider
43. terraform provisioner
44. terraform functions 
45. on what platform the terraform plugin run 
46. What does terraform init do?
47. Where do you store terraform statefile?
48. What does Terraform script consists of?
49. Contents of of terraform script
50. Terraform statefile, data source block, statelock
51. what do you mean terraform bundle
52. terraform plan?
53. Why have you used terraform?
54. What all resources have you created?
55. Where is the statefile managed?
56. How do create resources explain in S3 bucket? Explain the process
57. Which provider are you using?
58. What happens when we run the terraform init command?
59. Why is variables.tf and .tfvars files are used?
60. How do you create a resource multiple times?
61. How does modules work?
62. Have you used count and other functions in terraform scripts
63. what is the use of statefile in terraform 
64. explain terraform modules 
65. what is terraform tfstate file 
66. do you create modules or use the existing 
67. what is the use of workspace in terraform  
68. write the terraform script of creating a aws instance and explain 
69. Have to provisioned cloud infrastructure using terraform?
70. What is backend?
71. How will you block other user from using a statefile?
72. Ec2 instance spin up in Terraform (ami,instance type ,pem , count )
73. Terraform state list :list resources 








	